README.md, before:

# Snakemake workflow: `SNP_GATK`

[![Snakemake](https://img.shields.io/badge/snakemake-≥8.0.0-brightgreen.svg)](https://snakemake.github.io)

A Snakemake workflow for `calling snp`

## Getting started

### Install miniforge

```bash
wget https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge/releases/latest/download/Miniforge3-Linux-x86_64.sh
bash Miniforge3-Linux-x86_64.sh
```

### Install Snakemake

```bash
mamba create -c conda-forge -c bioconda -n env_name snakemake
mamba activate env_name
pip install snakemake-executor-plugin-slurm
```

### Get the workflow

```bash
git clone https://github.com/r1cheu/snp_gatk.git
cd snp_gatk
sudo singularity build snp_gatk.sif snp_call.def
### we alse provide a pre-built singularity image
```

### Prepare Samples

modify config/samples.tsv and config/units.tsv.
or use the provided python script

```python
python workflow/script/gen_input_csv.py -I /dir/path/to/fastq.gz -O config \
    --fq1 .1.fastq.gz --fq2 .2.fastq.gz
```

### Modify the config file

modify the config/config.yaml file to fit your needs.
e.g. sif: /path/to/snp_gatk.sif

### Run the workflow

```bash
snakemake --profile cluster --cache

# if failed, rerun the failed jobs
snakemake --profile cluster --cache --rerun-incomplete
```

Commit message:

remove redundant file and add resources dir

README.md, after:

# Snakemake workflow: `SNP_GATK`

[![Snakemake](https://img.shields.io/badge/snakemake-≥8.0.0-brightgreen.svg)](https://snakemake.github.io)

A Snakemake workflow for `calling snp`

## Getting started

### Install miniforge

```bash
wget https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge/releases/latest/download/Miniforge3-Linux-x86_64.sh
bash Miniforge3-Linux-x86_64.sh
```

### Install Snakemake

```bash
mamba create -c conda-forge -c bioconda -n env_name snakemake
mamba activate env_name
pip install snakemake-executor-plugin-slurm
```

### Get the workflow

```bash
git clone https://github.com/r1cheu/snp_gatk.git
cd snp_gatk
sudo singularity build snp_gatk.sif snp_call.def
### we alse provide a pre-built singularity image
```

### Prepare Samples

modify config/samples.tsv and config/units.tsv.
or use the provided python script

```python
python workflow/script/gen_input_csv.py -I /dir/path/to/fastq.gz -O config \
    --fq1 .1.fastq.gz --fq2 .2.fastq.gz
```

### Modify the config file

modify the config/config.yaml file to fit your needs.
e.g. sif: /path/to/snp_gatk.sif
and copy the reference genome to resources directory

### Run the workflow

```bash
snakemake --profile cluster --cache

# if failed, rerun the failed jobs
snakemake --profile cluster --cache --rerun-incomplete
```
